Document Nutanix (#1883)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/clusters/data-center/nutanix/install-pcg.md

Reviewer: Review the display and layout of this file after @cloudmaniac 's suggestion. The suggestions may cause rendering issues due to spacing and indentation changes.

Reviewer 2: :white_check_mark:

---
sidebar_label: "Install Private Cloud Gateway"
title: "Install Private Cloud Gateway"
description: "Learn how to install a Nutanix Private Cloud Gateway in Palette."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 10
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 3
tags: ["data center", "nutanix"]
---

> A Private Cloud Gateway (PCG) is required to connect your Nutanix cloud with Palette. The PCG enables Palette to securely monitor Nutanix clusters in the cloud. This section guides you on installing the PCG.

Author: fixed.

## Prerequisites

- A Nutanix Prism Central account with *Prism Admin* role. 

- A Nutanix subnet created in Nutanix Prism Central.

> - A Nutanix cloud registered with Palette.

Author: added link

- A Nutanix Cluster API (CAPI) OS image. For guidance on creating the image, refer to [Building CAPI Images for Nutanix Cloud Platform](https://image-builder.sigs.k8s.io/capi/providers/nutanix.html#building-capi-images-for-nutanix-cloud-platform-ncp).

> - The following applications installed: Docker, kind, kubectl, and clusterctl.

Author: @Sumit says Docker is preferable, as it's been validated. 
Added: We recommend using Docker, as it has been validated with this workflow.

## Setup

Use the following steps to prepare for installing the PCG.

### Create Bootstrap Cluster 

1. Log in to your Nutanix Prism account.

> 2. Create a local kind cluster, which will be used to bootstrap the workload cluster in the Nutanix account. The workload cluster is then used to deploy the PCG. 

Author: fixed.

```bash

>   kind create cluster

Author: added

```

### Export Variables and Deploy Workload Cluster

3. Copy the following required variables to your terminal, add your environment-specific information, and export the variables. For more information, review the [Nutanix Getting Started](https://opendocs.nutanix.com/capx/v1.1.x/getting_started/) guide.

> 

Author: Added a table to describe the variables.
split the code block into two: one for Nutanix and one for K8s and worker machine count.

```bash
  export NUTANIX_ENDPOINT=""    # IP or FQDN of Prism Central
  export NUTANIX_USER=""        # Prism Central user
  export NUTANIX_PASSWORD=""    # Prism Central password
  export NUTANIX_INSECURE=false # or true

  export KUBERNETES_VERSION="v1.22.9"  # Precede version with 'v'.
  export WORKER_MACHINE_COUNT=1
  export NUTANIX_SSH_AUTHORIZED_KEY=""

  export NUTANIX_PRISM_ELEMENT_CLUSTER_NAME=""
  export NUTANIX_MACHINE_TEMPLATE_IMAGE_NAME=""
  export NUTANIX_SUBNET_NAME=""
```

  You can ensure the variables were successfully exported by issuing the following command in your terminal. 

```bash

>   echo $variable_name

Author: good idea - revised.

```

4. Instantiate Nutanix Cluster API.

```bash

>   clusterctl init -i nutanix

Author: fixed

>   clusterctl init -i nutanix

Author: removed whitespace.

```

> 5. Deploy a workload cluster in Nutanix by issuing the following command. Replace `mytestcluster` with your cluster name and `mytestnamespace` and with your namespace name. Provide your control plane endpoint IP address. 

Author: clarified.

```bash
  export TEST_CLUSTER_NAME=mytestcluster
  export TEST_NAMESPACE=mytestnamespace
  CONTROL_PLANE_ENDPOINT_IP=x.x.x.x clusterctl generate cluster ${TEST_CLUSTER_NAME} \
    -i nutanix \
    --target-namespace ${TEST_NAMESPACE}  \
    > ./cluster.yaml
  kubectl create ns ${TEST_NAMESPACE}
  kubectl apply -f ./cluster.yaml -n ${TEST_NAMESPACE}
```

Output

```bash

>   namespace/carolina-namespace created

Author: done

  configmap/user-ca-bundle created
  secret/carolina-cluster created
  kubeadmconfigtemplate.bootstrap.cluster.x-k8s.io/carolina-cluster-kcfg-0 created
  cluster.cluster.x-k8s.io/carolina-cluster created
  machinedeployment.cluster.x-k8s.io/carolina-cluster-wmd created
  machinehealthcheck.cluster.x-k8s.io/carolina-cluster-mhc created
  kubeadmcontrolplane.controlplane.cluster.x-k8s.io/carolina-cluster-kcp created
  nutanixcluster.infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/carolina-cluster created
  nutanixmachinetemplate.infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/carolina-cluster-mt-0 created
```

### Install CNI on Workload Cluster

6. Deploy a Container Network Interface (CNI) pod network in the workload cluster to enable pod-to-pod communication. For more information, refer to [Deploy a CNI solution](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start.html#deploy-a-cni-solution) in the Nutanix [Quick Start](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start.htm) reference.

```bash

>   clusterctl get kubeconfig $TEST_CLUSTER_NAME > $TEST_CLUSTER_NAME.kubeconfig -n $TEST_NAMESPACE

Author: done

```

7. To verify the CNI pod network, issue the following command. 

```bash

>   kubectl --kubeconfig=./<cluster_name>-cluster.kubeconfig get nodes

Author: fixed

```

Output

```bash hideClipBoard
NAME                           STATUS   ROLES           AGE   VERSION
test-cluster-kcp-qhb5h         Ready    control-plane   26h   v1.26.7
test-cluster-wmd-gdjps-gx267   Ready    <none>          26h   v1.26.7
```

## Validate

> Use the steps below to verify your VMS are created.

Author: fixed typo

1. In the Nutanix Prism Element web console, navigate to **VM**. 

2. In the **Table** tab, verify the VMs you created are listed.

> 

Author: provided transition.

## Install PCG

> Use the following steps to install the PCG in your Kubernetes cluster.

Author: added workload

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).

2. From the left **Main Menu**, select **Tenant Settings**.

3. Next, on the **Tenant Settings Menu**, select **Private Cloud Gateways** and click on **Add New Private Cloud Gateway**.

4. Select **Self Hosted** in the next window that Palette displays.

> 5. Provide a name for the PCG and use the **drop-down Menu** to select Nutanix as the cloud type. Click **Confirm** to continue. Palette displays the Private Cloud Gateway Overview page. 

Author: fixed.

> 6. To install the Palette agent, copy the kubectl commands from the slide-out panel and execute them against your Kubernetes cluster.

Author: added workload

> 7. Close the slide-out panel when you have copied both the commands. The **Cluster Status** field on the PCG Overview page displays **Pending** while the PCG is deploying. Deployment is complete when the **Cluster Status** field displays **Running**.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Close the slide-out panel when you have copied both commands. The PCG Overview page's **Cluster Status** field will display **Pending** while the PCG deploys. The deployment is complete when the **Cluster Status** field displays the status **Running**.  
```

Author: fixed.

## Validate

> When deployed, the PCG registers itself with Palette. Use the steps below to verify if the PCG is registered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When deployed, the PCG registers itself with Palette. Use the steps below to verify if the PCG registration is successful. 
```

Author: fixed.

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).

2. Navigate to the **left Main Menu** and select **Tenant Settings**.

3. Next, on the **Tenant Settings Menu**, select **Private Cloud Gateways**.

4. Locate the PCG and verify it is installed and in the **Running** state. 

> 

Reviewer: What does the user do with the kind clusters after this point? Can we clean it up? If so, let's add the steps to clean up.

Author: Added that they can delete it.

## Prerequisites

- A Nutanix Prism Central account with *Prism Admin* role. 

- A Nutanix subnet created in Nutanix Prism Central.

- A Nutanix cloud registered with Palette. For information about registering your cloud, review [Register Nutanix Cloud](register-nutanix-cloud.md).

- A Nutanix Cluster API (CAPI) OS image. For guidance on creating the image, refer to [Building CAPI Images for Nutanix Cloud Platform](https://image-builder.sigs.k8s.io/capi/providers/nutanix.html#building-capi-images-for-nutanix-cloud-platform-ncp).

- The following applications installed. The [Common Prerequisites](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start#common-prerequisites) section of the [Install clusterctl](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start#install-clusterctl) page provides links to the applications below.

  - [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
  - [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/#installation) or  [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) ??
  - [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/)
  - [clusterctl](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start#install-clusterctl) 

> ## Setup

Reviewer 3: OK, so there is a misunderstanding about PCG. Nutanix (and custom clouds) requires a self-hosted PCG. What is described below looks mandatory while it's not: it's only one of the option, we offer the option to have any type of existing kubernetes cluster to run the PCG.

The only requirement is that it must a network connectivity w/ Prism.

Author: Revised as:

"- A Kubernetes cluster created that has network connectivity with Nutanix Prism. This cluster will connect the Nutanix cloud with Palette via the PCG. Various types of Kubernetes clusters can be used for the PCG. However, the [Setup](#setup) section in this guide uses the process described in the [Nutanix Getting Started](https://opendocs.nutanix.com/capx/v1.1.x/getting_started/) resource and its specified [Common Prerequisites](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start#common-prerequisites). This method requires installing the following applications:

  - [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
  - [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/#installation)
  - [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/)
  - [clusterctl](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start#install-clusterctl) ""

  ```bash
  export TEST_CLUSTER_NAME=mytestcluster
  export TEST_NAMESPACE=mytestnamespace
  CONTROL_PLANE_ENDPOINT_IP=x.x.x.x clusterctl generate cluster ${TEST_CLUSTER_NAME} \
    -i nutanix \
    --target-namespace ${TEST_NAMESPACE}  \
    > ./cluster.yaml
  kubectl create namespace ${TEST_NAMESPACE}
  kubectl apply -filename ./cluster.yaml -namespace ${TEST_NAMESPACE}
  ```

  Output

  ```bash hideClipBoard
  namespace/mytestnamespace created
  configmap/user-ca-bundle created
  secret/mytestcluster created
  kubeadmconfigtemplate.bootstrap.cluster.x-k8s.io/mytestcluster-kcfg-0 created
  cluster.cluster.x-k8s.io/mytestcluster created
  machinedeployment.cluster.x-k8s.io/mytestcluster-wmd created
  machinehealthcheck.cluster.x-k8s.io/mytestcluster-mhc created
  kubeadmcontrolplane.controlplane.cluster.x-k8s.io/mytestcluster-kcp created
  nutanixcluster.infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/mytestcluster created
  nutanixmachinetemplate.infrastructure.cluster.x-k8s.io/mytestcluster-mt-0 created
  ```

### Install CNI on Workload Cluster

> 6. After your Nutanix workload cluster is deployed, retrieve its Kubeconfig file with the command described below.

Author: lower cased kubeconfig

---
sidebar_label: "Install Private Cloud Gateway"
title: "Install Private Cloud Gateway"
description: "Learn how to install a Nutanix Private Cloud Gateway in Palette."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 10
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 3
tags: ["data center", "nutanix"]
---

> A Private Cloud Gateway (PCG) is required to connect your Nutanix cloud with Palette. The PCG enables Palette to create and monitor Nutanix clusters in the deployed cloud environment. This section guides you on how to install the PCG.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A Self-hosted Private Cloud Gateway (PCG) is required to connect your Nutanix environment with Palette. The PCG enables Palette to create and monitor Nutanix clusters in the deployed cloud environment. This section guides you on how to install the PCG.
```

Reviewer 2: :white_check_mark:

## Prerequisites

> - A Nutanix Prism Central account with *Prism Admin* role.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: :white_check_mark:

> - A Nutanix Prism Element cluster created.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: :white_check_mark:

> - A Kubernetes cluster created that has network connectivity with Nutanix Prism. This cluster will connect the Nutanix cloud with Palette via the PCG. Various types of Kubernetes clusters can be used to deploy the PCG. If you need guidance in creating a Nutanix cluster to deploy your PCG, check out the [Set Up Environment and Deploy Cluster](#set-up-environment-and-deploy-cluster) section below, that describes one possible option. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- An existing Kubernetes cluster that has network connectivity with Nutanix Prism Central. This cluster will connect the Nutanix infrastructure with Palette via the PCG. Various types of Kubernetes clusters can be used to deploy the PCG. If you need guidance in creating a Kubernetes cluster on Nutanix to deploy your PCG, check out the [Set Up Environment and Deploy Cluster](#set-up-environment-and-deploy-cluster) section below, that describes one possible option. 
```

Reviewer 2: :white_check_mark:

> - A Nutanix subnet created in Nutanix Prism Central that will be assigned to the virtual machines (VMs) deployed in the Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: :white_check_mark:

- A Nutanix cloud registered with Palette. For more information, review [Register Nutanix Cloud](register-nutanix-cloud.md).

> - A Nutanix Cluster API (CAPI) OS image. For guidance on creating the image, refer to [Building CAPI Images for Nutanix Cloud Platform](https://image-builder.sigs.k8s.io/capi/providers/nutanix.html#building-capi-images-for-nutanix-cloud-platform-ncp).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: :white_check_mark:

6. To install the Palette agent, copy the kubectl commands from the slide-out panel and execute them against your workload cluster.

7. Close the slide-out panel when you have copied both commands. The PCG Overview page **Cluster Status** field will display **Pending** while the PCG is deploying. The deployment is complete when the **Cluster Status** field displays the status **Running**.  

## Validate

When deployed, the PCG registers itself with Palette. Use the steps below to verify if the PCG registration is successful.

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).

2. Navigate to the **left Main Menu** and select **Tenant Settings**.

3. Next, on the **Tenant Settings Menu**, select **Private Cloud Gateways**.

4. Locate the PCG and verify it is installed and in the **Running** state. With the PCG successfully deployed in your Kubernetes workload cluster, you can delete the kind cluster that was used to bootstrap the workload cluster. 

  ```bash
  kind delete cluster --name pcg-pilot
  ```

> ## Set Up Environment and Deploy Cluster

Reviewer 3: We need to find a better section title for this, it's too vague currently. Something like "Deploy a Kubernetes cluster to host a PCG"

Reviewer 2: Revised as: Deploy a Kubernetes Cluster to Host the PCG

> This section describes one possible method for creating a Nutanix cluster to deploy your PCG using the process described in the [Nutanix Getting Started](https://opendocs.nutanix.com/capx/v1.1.x/getting_started/) resource and the [Common Prerequisites](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start#common-prerequisites) it specifies.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This section describes one possible method for creating a Kubernetes cluster that will be used to deploy your PCG using the process described in the [Nutanix Getting Started](https://opendocs.nutanix.com/capx/v1.1.x/getting_started/) resource and the [Common Prerequisites](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start#common-prerequisites) it specifies.
```

Can we have this highlighted, maybe as an infotip paragraph?

Reviewer: There is no need to highlight this, it's the entry paragraph to the section.

Reviewer 2: :white_check_mark:

### Prerequisites

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

- A Nutanix Prism Central account with *Prism Admin* role.

- A Nutanix Prism Element cluster created.

- A Nutanix subnet created in Nutanix Prism Central that will be assigned to the virtual machines (VMs) deployed in the Kubernetes cluster.

- A Nutanix Cluster API (CAPI) OS image. For guidance on creating the image, refer to [Building CAPI Images for Nutanix Cloud Platform](https://image-builder.sigs.k8s.io/capi/providers/nutanix.html#building-capi-images-for-nutanix-cloud-platform-ncp).

```

Reviewer 2: :white_check_mark:

> This method requires installing the following applications:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This method requires the following applications on the machine that will execute the following commands:
```

Reviewer 2: Revised as: The following software installed on the machine that will be used to create the clusters:

title: "Install Private Cloud Gateway"
description: "Learn how to install a Nutanix Private Cloud Gateway in Palette."
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 10
toc_min_heading_level: 2
toc_max_heading_level: 3
tags: ["data center", "nutanix"]
---

A Private Cloud Gateway (PCG) is required to connect your Nutanix cloud with Palette. The PCG enables Palette to securely monitor Nutanix clusters in the cloud. This section guides you on installing the PCG.

## Prerequisites

- A Nutanix cloud registered with Palette.

- A Kubernetes cluster in Nutanix with version 1.19.x or higher, outbound internet connectivity, and
DNS configured to resolve public internet domain names.

<!-- - If you install the PCG from your local environment using Clusterctl instead of using Palette, you need to install the following applications. To install Clusterctl, refer to [The Cluster API Book](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start.html#install-clusterctl).
  - Docker
  - Kind
  - Kubectl
  - Clusterctl  -->
  

## Install PCG

Use the following steps to install the PCG in your Kubernetes cluster.

1. Log in to [Palette](https://console.spectrocloud.com/).

> 2. From the left **Main Menu** select **Tenant Settings**.

Author: fixed

3. Next, on the **Tenant Settings Menu**, select **Private Cloud Gateways** and click on **+ Add New Private Cloud Gateway**.

4. Select **Self Hosted** in the next window that Palette displays.

5. Provide a name for the PCG and use the **drop-down Menu** to select Nutanix as the cloud type. Click **Confirm** to continue. Palette displays the Private Cloud Gateway Overview page. 

> 6. To install the Palette agent, copy the kubectl commands from the slide-out panel into your Kubernetes cluster.

Author: fixed

> 7. Close the slide-out panel when you have copied both the commands. The **Cluster Status** field on the PCG Overview page displays **Pending** while the PCG is installing. Installation is complete when the **Cluster Status** field displays **Running**.  

Author: done

## Validate

> When installed, the PCG registers itself with Palette. Use the steps below to verify the PCG is registered.

Author: fixed

  ```bash
  kind delete cluster --name pcg-pilot
  ```

## Set Up Environment and Deploy Cluster

This section describes one possible method for creating a Nutanix cluster to deploy your PCG using the process described in the [Nutanix Getting Started](https://opendocs.nutanix.com/capx/v1.1.x/getting_started/) resource and the [Common Prerequisites](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start#common-prerequisites) it specifies.

### Prerequisites

This method requires installing the following applications:

  - [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)
  - [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/#installation)
  - [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/)
  - [clusterctl](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start#install-clusterctl) 

### Create Bootstrap Cluster 

1. Log in to your Nutanix Prism account.

2. Create a local kind cluster. This cluster will bootstrap Cluster API and provision the target workload cluster in the Nutanix account. The workload cluster is then used to deploy the PCG. 

  ```bash
  kind create cluster --name pcg-pilot
  ```

> ### Export Variables and Deploy Workload Cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Deploy Workload Cluster
```

Reviewer 2: :white_check_mark:

  ```bash
  clusterctl get kubeconfig $TEST_CLUSTER_NAME > $TEST_CLUSTER_NAME.kubeconfig -namespace $TEST_NAMESPACE
  ```

7. Deploy a Container Network Interface (CNI) pod in the workload cluster to enable pod-to-pod communication. For more information, refer to [Deploy a CNI solution](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start.html#deploy-a-cni-solution) in the [Nutanix Quick Start](https://cluster-api.sigs.k8s.io/user/quick-start.htm) reference. [Calico](https://docs.tigera.io/calico/latest/about/) is used as the CNI solution in this example.

  ```bash
  kubectl apply --filename https://raw.githubusercontent.com/projectcalico/calico/v3.26.1/manifests/calico.yaml
  ```

8. To verify that the CNI was deployed successfully, issue the following command. 

  ```bash
  kubectl --kubeconfig=./$TEST_CLUSTER_NAME.kubeconfig get nodes
  ```

  The output should display your nodes with a **Ready** status.

    ```bash hideClipBoard
    NAME                           STATUS   ROLES           AGE   VERSION
    test-cluster-kcp-qhb5h         Ready    control-plane   26h   v1.26.7
    test-cluster-wmd-gdjps-gx267   Ready    <none>          26h   v1.26.7
    ```

> ## Validate

Reviewer: We need to provide guidance about what to do with the kind cluster we stood up. I'm pretty sure we can terminate it once the workload cluster is deployed. @cloudmaniac correct me if I am wrong please.

Reviewer 2: Yes, we can. This was addressed in step 4 of the **Install PCG Validate** section. :)

Reviewer 2: :white_check_mark:
